backend/
├── src/
│   ├── config/
│   │   └── data-source.ts        # TypeORM DataSource (Step 3)
│   ├── entities/                  # TypeORM entity classes (Step 2)
│   ├── middleware/
│   │   ├── auth.middleware.ts     # Session + cookie validation (Step 9)
│   │   └── error.middleware.ts    # Global error handler
│   ├── routes/                    # Express routers, one per domain
│   ├── controllers/               # Thin request/response handlers
│   ├── services/                  # All business logic lives here
│   ├── types/                     # Shared TypeScript types/interfaces
│   └── app.ts                     # Express app wiring (middleware stack)
├── index.ts                       # Entry point — starts the server
├── ProductImages/                 # Static image storage (Step 15)
├── package.json
├── tsconfig.json
└── .env

C:\Users\SahilSalunke(DevIN)\Desktop\Projects\E-Commerce\BACK_END>npm init

Routes — receive the HTTP request and delegate immediately. No business logic here.
Controllers — handle request/response translation. Extract params, call a service, return a response.
Services — contain all business logic. Know nothing about req or res.
Entities — TypeORM class definitions that map to database tables. No logic, just structure.
Middleware — cross-cutting concerns (auth, validation, error handling) that wrap routes.
In the world of programming, async and `await are tools used to handle "waiting" without freezing your entire application.

Async and Await
Imagine you are at a coffee shop. If the cashier had to stand perfectly still and ignore every other customer until your latte 
was finished, the line would never move. 
That is Synchronous (blocking). Asynchronous (non-blocking) means the cashier takes your 
order, gives you a buzzer, and moves to the next person.
async (The Label)
    When you put async before a function, you are telling the computer: 
    "This function is going to do something that takes time (like fetching data from a database), 
    and it will return a 'Promise' that it will eventually finish."
await (The Pause Button)
    You can only use await inside an async function. It tells the computer: 
    "Stop here and wait for this specific task to finish before moving to the next line of code."

MVC stands for Model-View-Controller, a widely used architectural design pattern in software development. 
It separates an application into three interconnected components: Model, View, and Controller. 
This separation helps in organizing code, improving maintainability, and enabling parallel development.

C:\Users\SahilSalunke(DevIN)\Desktop\Projects\E-Commerce\BACK_END>

npm install express typeorm reflect-metadata mysql2 bcrypt jsonwebtoken cookie-parser cors dotenv multer express-validator

🛡️ Core Framework & Settings
    express: The "Engine." It handles your routes (like /products) and listens for requests from the browser.
    dotenv: The "Secret Vault." It allows you to hide sensitive info (like database passwords) in a 
    .env file instead of writing them directly in your code.
    cors: The "Security Gate." It permits your frontend website to talk to your backend API safely.
🗄️ Database Tools (TypeORM)
    typeorm: The "Translator." It lets you write JavaScript code to talk to your database instead of raw SQL.
    reflect-metadata: A helper for TypeORM that allows it to read your "Entities" (class structures) correctly.
    mysql2: The "Driver." It is the actual bridge that connects your Node.js code to a MySQL database.
🔐 Security & Users
    bcrypt: The "Scrambler." It turns user passwords into unreadable gibberish so that even if your database is hacked, 
        the passwords remain safe.
    jsonwebtoken (JWT): The "Digital ID Card." After a user logs in, this gives them a token so the server knows 
        who they are for the rest of their session.
    cookie-parser: The "Pocket." It helps the server store and read those ID cards (JWTs) inside the user's browser cookies.
🛠️ Utilities & Validation
    multer: The "File Clerk." You'll need this if you want users to upload images of products to your store.
    express-validator: The "Checklist." It makes sure the user actually entered a real email or a strong enough password before 
        the data reaches your Service layer.

Why Multer ?
    By default, Express (your web framework) is great at reading text (like a username or a password), 
    but it has no idea how to handle binary data, which is what images, PDFs, and videos are made of.
    If your project only involves text (prices, names, passwords), you don't need multer. 
    The moment you want a user to click an "Upload" button for a file, multer becomes mandatory.

npm install --save-dev typescript ts-node nodemon @types/express @types/node @types/bcrypt @types/jsonwebtoken 
@types/cookie-parser @types/cors @types/multer

typescript
    This is the main compiler. It turns your .ts files (which have helpful "types" to prevent bugs) 
    into regular .js files that Node.js can read.
ts-node
    This allows you to run TypeScript files directly in your terminal without having to manually compile them first. 
    It's a huge time-saver during development.
nodemon
    Normally, every time you change a line of code, you have to stop your server and start it again. 
    nodemon watches your files and automatically restarts the server the second you hit "Save."
The "Translator" Files: @types/...
    TypeScript is "strict"—it wants to know exactly what every function does. However, libraries like express 
    or bcrypt were originally written in plain JavaScript.
    The @types packages act as a "Translation Manual." They tell TypeScript exactly what inputs and outputs to 
    expect from those libraries.
    Benefit: Without these, your code editor (like VS Code) wouldn't be able to give you "Autofill" suggestions 
    or highlight errors when you use those libraries.

The Price Snapshot Problem — this is the single most important design decision in the schema and the one most likely to be asked 
about. When a customer orders a product at ₹500, and the admin later changes the price to ₹750, the order history must still show 
₹500. If OrderItem only stores a foreign key to Product, querying the order later will show the current price, not the price at 
purchase. The solution is a price_at_purchase column on OrderItem that copies the price value at the moment the order is created.
This is called denormalisation by intent — a deliberate, justified violation of 3NF to preserve historical accuracy.

onDelete: 'RESTRICT' vs onDelete: 
'CASCADE' — these are your database-level safety nets. CASCADE means "if the parent is deleted, 
    delete the children too" — used on CartItem and OrderItem (delete a user → their cart clears). 
RESTRICT means "refuse to delete 
    the parent if children exist" — used on Product referenced by OrderItem (you cannot delete a product that appears in a real order;
    that would corrupt order history).
@JoinColumn({ name: 'user_id' }) — without this, TypeORM auto-generates a column name like userId (camelCase). Specifying 
    snake_case names explicitly keeps your DB columns readable in raw SQL and consistent with SQL conventions.
    price_at_purchase is a value, not a foreign key — it is a decimal column, not a reference to product.price. 
    This is the price snapshot. It is copied at checkout time and never changes afterwards.
    This explicitly names the foreign key column in your MySQL table as type_id. Without this, TypeORM would default to typeId.

Number	Is it allowed?	Why?
123.45	✅ YES	Total digits = 5 (Precision). Digits after dot = 2 (Scale).
12.3	✅ YES	Total digits = 3 (Fits inside 5). Digits after dot = 1 (Fits inside 2).
1234.56	❌ NO	Total digits = 6. This exceeds our Precision of 5.
1.234	❌ NO	Digits after dot = 3. This exceeds our Scale of 2.

TypeORM's DataSource is the central object that manages everything database-related — it holds your connection configuration, 
knows about all your entities, and owns the connection pool.

What is a connection pool? 
    Opening a raw TCP connection to a database is expensive — it involves a handshake, authentication, 
    and memory allocation on both ends. If every HTTP request opened and closed its own connection, a server under moderate load 
    would spend more time connecting than querying. 
    A connection pool maintains a set of pre-opened connections and lends them to requests. 
    When the request finishes, the connection returns to the pool rather than being closed. TypeORM handles this 
    automatically through the underlying mysql2 driver. The default pool size is 10 connections — meaning up to 10 queries can 
    execute simultaneously before others queue.

Why a single DataSource instance? 
    If you create a new DataSource per request, you create a new pool per request — you'd 
    exhaust database connections almost immediately under any real load. One DataSource, initialised once at server startup, 
    shared across all routes via import, is the correct pattern.

C:\Users\SahilSalunke(DevIN)\Desktop\Projects\E-Commerce\BACK_END\src>npm i --save-dev @types/express @types/node

Package             Purpose in your Code
express             The framework creating your app and handling routes.
cookie-parser       Allows app.use(cookieParser()) to read cookies from the browser.
cors                Allows your Angular/React frontend (on port 4200) to talk to this API.
reflect-metadata    Critical: Must be imported first for your TypeORM entities to work.
path                A built-in Node module (covered by @types/node) used to find your image folder.

Why `better-sqlite3` over `sqlite3`?
    TypeORM officially supports both, but `better-sqlite3` is synchronous, faster for single-process apps, and has better 
    TypeScript support. For a course project with no concurrency requirements it is the superior choice.

@Column({ type: 'simple-enum', enum: UserRole, default: UserRole.CUSTOMER })
role: UserRole;
    simple-enum is TypeORM's cross-database enum that stores the value as a plain string — it works identically on SQLite, MySQL, 
    and PostgreSQL. It's actually the safer choice if you ever want to switch databases later.

In-Memory Session Store & Session Middleware
Our solution uses two layers working together:
Layer 1 — JWT in an HTTP-only cookie. Proves the user authenticated at some point. Tamper-proof due to cryptographic signature. 
    Sent automatically on every request by the browser.
Layer 2 — In-memory session Map. Proves the session is currently active. Can be deleted instantly. 
    Checked on every protected request.

Salt_Rounds
    Salt Rounds is a number that tells the bcrypt hashing algorithm how hard it has to work.
    Why do we need it?
        If you just hash a password once, a modern computer can guess millions of combinations per second. 
        This is called a Brute Force attack.
        By adding salt rounds, you are intentionally making your server "slow down" for a split second.
            For a real user: Waiting 0.1 seconds to log in is invisible.
            For a hacker: If every guess takes 0.1 seconds, trying a billion combinations would take years.
        Without Salt: Two users with the password "123456" would have the exact same hash in your database.
        With Salt: Even if 100 users use "123456", every single hash in your database will look completely different. 
            This prevents Rainbow Table attacks (pre-computed lists of common passwords).

Omit 
    In simple terms, Omit is a TypeScript "Utility Type" that acts like a filter for your objects. 
    It tells TypeScript: "Take the User type, but remove the passwordHash property from it."
        Why do we use it?
            When you define your User entity, it includes the passwordHash. However, in your AuthService.register, 
            you are returning the user data to the frontend.
            You never, ever want to send a password hash to the frontend, even if it's hashed. By using Omit, 
            you are creating a "Safe User" type for your return value.

Promise
    What ?
        In simple terms, a Promise is a placeholder for a value that you don't have yet, but expect to receive in the future.
        Think of it like ordering food at a restaurant:
            You place your order (this is the Promise).
            The waiter gives you a "buzzer" (the Pending state).
            You go back to your table and keep talking to your friends (the code keeps running, it doesn't stop).      
    Why?
        In JavaScript, some tasks take time (like fetching a user from a database or hashing a password). 
        If JavaScript stopped and waited for these tasks, your whole app would "freeze" until the task finished.
        Promises allow JavaScript to say: "Go do that heavy work in the background. 
        Tell me when you're done, and I'll handle the result then."

what is this "process.env.JWT_SECRET!" 
    It is you telling TypeScript: "I promise you, I have defined this variable in my .env file. 
    Stop worrying that it might be undefined."
    By adding the !, you are manually silencing that warning. You are essentially saying:
        "Trust me, I'm the boss. I know this exists. Treat it as a string, not string | undefined."

any vs undefined
In TypeScript, any and undefined serve completely different purposes. One is about what we know (type safety), 
and the other is about what exists (value).

any: The "Anything Goes" Type
    any is a Type. 
    It tells TypeScript to turn off type-checking for that variable. It is a way of saying, "I don't know what this is, and 
    I don't want you to check it."

undefined: The "Nothing is Here" Value
    undefined is both a Type and a Value. It means a variable has been declared but has not yet been assigned a value.
Feature	           any	                                 undefined
Category	      A "Escape Hatch" Type	                A primitive Type and Value
Type Safety	      Disables all safety checks	        Enforces strict safety checks
Runtime	          Could be an object, string, etc.	    Is literally the value undefined
Analogy     	  A box that could contain anything.	An empty spot where a box should be.

next(err) in auth.controllers
    It passes the global error i.e declare in 

getManyAndCount() in product.service
    This is a powerful TypeORM method that executes two SQL queries at once:
    Query 1: Fetches the actual rows (e.g., the 10 products for the current page).
    Query 2: Counts every single product in the database that matches your filters (ignoring skip and take).
    Result: It returns an array: [data, count]. You are using destructuring to assign them to products and total.

Why Multer ?
    Feature             Without Multer (Manual)                 With Multer
    Complexity          50+ lines of complex Buffer logic.      5–10 lines of clear config.
    Security            You must manually limit file size.      limits: { fileSize: 5000000 }
    Parsing             You have to separate text from images.  Automatically puts text in req.body.
    File Naming         Files will overwrite each other.        Custom filename function included.
    Reliability         "High chance of ""broken"" images."     Battle-tested by millions of apps.
    Using Multer gives you a "Good Format" because it transforms a chaotic stream of binary data into a clean, 
    easy-to-use JavaScript object. Trying to do it without Multer is like trying to build your own engine just to 
    drive to the grocery store—it’s possible, but not very efficient!

npm install --save-dev @types/multer

Why path.join(__dirname, '..', 'ProductImages')?
    __dirname in a TypeScript project compiled to dist/ would resolve to dist/src/ at runtime. 
    We go up two levels (..) to reach the project root where ProductImages/ lives. Using path.join 
    instead of string concatenation handles OS-specific path separators 
    (backslash on Windows, forward slash on Unix) automatically.

Utils ---> ApiError.ts
Why not just a function?	 
    A function just returns an object; 
    a Class creates a unique instance we can track.


Why Class?
    It makes your debugging life much easier because you can tell the difference between a 
    "User Error" (404/400) and a "Developer Error" (500).
    I prefer the Class approach because it turns a generic error into a structured, 
    typed object that our Global Error Handler can recognize and process consistently 
    across the entire application.

Why not use JSON?
    You cannot send a "true" image file inside a standard application/json body. 
    JSON only supports text. To send an image in JSON, you would have to convert the
    image to a massive Base64 string, which is much slower and harder for your server
    (Multer) to process. Form-data is the industry standard for file uploads.
    For this we use form-data in POSTMAN

201 Created is specifically for when you add something to the database.
200 OK is for a successful request that returns data.
204 No Content is the most "Pro" choice for a deletion because there is no object left to 
show.
Recommendation: Use 200 if you want to send a "Deleted successfully" message, or 204 if 
    you send nothing back.

Most tutorial carts store items in localStorage or a server-side session. Both fail the spec's requirement:
    localStorage cart — tied to the browser. Log out, switch device, or clear browser 
        data and the cart is gone.
    Session cart — tied to the server session. Our session store is an in-memory Map that 
        doesn't survive server restarts.

By default, if you do not explicitly call .status(), Express sends a status code of 200 OK.

In admin.Service
Feature         .delete()                           .remove()
Input           "ID array of IDs                    or criteria",Full Entity Object (or array of objects)
Performance     Very High (Direct SQL)              Moderate (Requires a fetch first)
Triggers Hooks? No                                  Yes
Use Case        "Bulk deletes, simple ID removal"   When you need to run logic before/after delete

What if you don't write return then what happen ?
    if (!productId) {
        res.status(400).json({ error: 'productId is required' });
        return;
        }
    In Express, the res methods like json() or send() do not automatically terminate the function execution. 
    If we don't include a return statement after sending an error response, the execution will continue to the
    'success' logic below. This leads to a 'Headers Already Sent' error and potential side effects, such as 
    unnecessary database queries or server crashes

Feature	                    findOneBy / find	        SelectQueryBuilder
Complexity	                Low (Easy)	                High (Steep learning curve)
Joins	                    Basic (via relations)	    Advanced (Inner/Left Joins)
Execution Speed	            Fast for single rows	    Fastest for complex datasets
Select Specific Columns	    Possible but limited	    Extremely precise (.select())
SQL Injection Protection	Built-in	                Built-in (if using parameters)

Update Logic in cart.service
    Imagine a user has 2 Gaming Mice in their cart. The warehouse (Stock) has 10 left. 
    The user changes their cart to 5.
    Old Quantity: 2
    New Quantity: 5
    The Delta (diff): 5 - 2 = 3
    The Logic: Is $3 <= 10? Yes.
    The Result: Stock becomes 10 - 3 = 7. Cart becomes 5.

Terms                   What it tells the Interviewer
Race Condition	    You understand that code runs asynchronously and can overlap.
Soft Reservation	You know the difference between "putting it in a cart" and "owning it."
Pessimistic Locking	You know how to use Database features to prevent data corruption.
Source of Truth	    You understand that the final database update is the only one that matters.
Atomic Operation	You know that some actions must happen as one single, unbreakable unit.

Feature         Soft Reservation (Your Current Way)     Hard Reservation (Locking)
Performance     Very High (No DB waiting)               Lower (Users must wait for locks)
UX              "Item might ""disappear"" at checkout"  Item is guaranteed once in cart
Complexity      Simple code                             Requires Transactions/Locking
Best For        General E-commerce (Amazon/eBay)        Ticket Sales (Concerts/Airlines)
Conclusion: That we are designing the e-commerce and taking the reference from amazon/e-bay 
            soft-reservation is optimal to use as per the user requirement

Why didn't you just use locking now? ---> Refer Line 372 in InterviewQ.txt or search (Soft Reservation)
    For this MVP (Minimum Viable Product), a soft reservation is more performant and easier to maintain. 
    It prevents the database from becoming a bottleneck. As the app scales, we can easily wrap the 
    checkout logic in a Database Transaction to provide stricter guarantees.    

And is immediately rejected with 401. Even if the customer is mid-session, actively browsing — the next click gets a 401. This is the power of the dual-layer system (JWT + session Map).




