TRY FOR THE REAL WORLD EXAMPLES

"Why do you have both src/app.ts and index.ts at the root? Why not just one file?"
    index.ts is the process entry point — its only job is to import the DataSource, initialise the DB connection, 
    then start the HTTP server. app.ts configures the Express application — middleware, routes, error handlers. 
    Separating them means you can import app in a test file without starting a real server or opening a real DB connection. 
    It's the standard pattern used by every production Express codebase.

"Why do you need reflect-metadata and why does import order matter?"
    The bridge that keeps your TypeScript data types alive in the JavaScript runtime.
    TypeScript decorators like @Column() use the Reflect API to attach metadata to class properties at definition time. 
    reflect-metadata is a polyfill that adds this API to the JavaScript runtime. 
    It must be the first import because if any TypeORM entity class is evaluated by the JavaScript engine before the 
    Reflect API exists, the metadata registration calls silently no-op — you get no error, but your entities have no columns, 
    and your DB queries return empty results. 
    It's one of the most common "it works on my machine" bugs in TypeORM projects.

    The "Global Patch" Rule
    reflect-metadata works by "patching" the global Reflect object in JavaScript.
    If you import your Entities or Database Connection before you import reflect-metadata, those entities will try to look for 
    the "notes" (metadata) and find nothing.
    This usually results in a famous error: ColumnTypeUndefinedError: Column type for Product#price is undefined.
    The Correct Sequence
    Think of it like a loading sequence:
        reflect-metadata: Prepare the "note-taking" system.
        dotenv: Load your secret environment variables.
        Entities/Services: Define your logic (now that the note-taking system is ready).
        App/Express: Start the server.
    
"Why ts-node for development but tsc + node dist/ for production?"
    ts-node transpiles TypeScript on the fly in memory — there's no compilation step, so the dev loop is fast. 
    But it adds overhead on every file load and isn't optimised for throughput. In production you pre-compile with tsc to plain 
    JavaScript, which Node runs natively at full speed with no transpilation cost. The build also lets you catch type errors as 
    a CI gate before deployment — ts-node in watch mode is more forgiving about type errors that tsc --strict would reject.


"Why is price_at_purchase on OrderItem instead of just reading product.price at query time?"
    product.price reflects the current price which can be changed by an admin at any time. 
    If we join against it when displaying order history, a customer who paid ₹500 would see ₹750 after a 
    price increase — which is incorrect, potentially a legal issue, and a terrible user experience. 
    By copying the price at the moment the order is created and storing it as a plain decimal column, we make order history 
    immutable to future pricing changes. This is a deliberate, justified denormalisation.
    EX. Dhurandhar movie price rise

"Why use onDelete: 'RESTRICT' on OrderItem → Product instead of CASCADE?"
    If we used CASCADE, deleting a product from the admin panel would silently delete all OrderItem rows 
    referencing it — destroying historical order data. A customer's past order would become incomplete or disappear. 
    RESTRICT forces the admin to face a database error if they try to delete a product with order history, which surfaces the 
    problem rather than silently corrupting data. The correct solution for the admin would be to mark the product as 
    inactive/hidden rather than hard-deleting it — which is a separate improvement we could add.
    EX. Amazon delivery status : Pending | Delivered | Blocked

"Why is there no separate Cart table — just CartItem directly linked to User?"
    A dedicated Cart entity would only add an intermediate ID with no meaningful attributes of its own. 
    Every customer has exactly one cart at any time, so the CartItem table with a user_id foreign key serves as the implicit cart. 
    This avoids a pointless join and keeps the schema simpler. If requirements ever demanded multiple saved carts per user 
    (wishlists, for example), we'd introduce the Cart entity then — but we don't add tables speculatively.

Why timezone: 'Z'? 
    This tells the MySQL driver to treat all timestamps as UTC. Without it, timestamps stored in the DB get silently 
    shifted by your server's local timezone offset — a bug that only surfaces when the server is deployed to a machine 
    in a different timezone than your dev machine.
    Ex. 
        Scenario A (No Timezone set): You save an order at 10:00 AM. The MySQL driver sees your computer's clock and saves 
            10:00:00. Later, your server in London reads it and thinks it happened at 10:00 AM London time. You just "teleported" 
            that order 5 hours into the future.
        Scenario B (With timezone: 'Z'): Your driver converts 10:00 AM (New York) to 3:00 PM (UTC) before saving. 
            No matter where the server is in the world, 3:00 PM UTC is an absolute point in time that never changes.

Why credentials: true in CORS? 
    HTTP-only cookies are not sent cross-origin by default. Setting credentials: true on 
    the server and withCredentials: true on the Angular HTTP client instructs the browser to include cookies on 
    cross-origin requests. Without both sides set, your auth cookies will never reach the backend from Angular's dev 
    server on port 4200.

Why is the error handler last? 
    Express identifies error-handling middleware by its four-parameter signature (err, req, res, next). 
    It must be registered after all routes — Express processes middleware in registration order, 
    so if the error handler is registered first, it never receives errors thrown by routes registered after it.

"Why is synchronize tied to NODE_ENV rather than just hardcoded to true?"
    Because the same codebase runs in both development and production. If synchronize were always true, deploying a 
    schema change to production could auto-alter or drop columns the moment the server restarts — potentially destroying live data.
    By tying it to NODE_ENV === 'development', the behaviour is safe-by-default in any non-development environment. 
    In a real production system, we'd replace this with TypeORM migrations — versioned, reviewable SQL scripts that apply 
    schema changes in a controlled, reversible way.

"What happens if AppDataSource.initialize() is called twice?"
    TypeORM throws an error — a DataSource can only be initialised once per process. This is intentional. 
    It enforces the singleton pattern at the framework level. If you need to check whether the DataSource is ready before using 
    it (in tests, for example), TypeORM exposes AppDataSource.isInitialized as a boolean you can check before calling initialize() 
    again.

"Why must dotenv/config be the very first import in index.ts, before even app?"
    Because app.ts imports data-source.ts, and data-source.ts reads process.env.DB_HOST, process.env.DB_NAME, etc. 
    at module evaluation time — the moment the file is imported, those expressions are evaluated. If dotenv hasn't run yet, 
    all those process.env reads return undefined, and TypeORM connects to localhost with an empty database name, which either 
    connects to the wrong DB or fails silently with defaults. The import order in index.ts is not a style preference — it is 
    load-order-critical.

"You chose SQLite — how would this change if this went to production?"
    SQLite is a single-file, single-writer database. It handles reads well but serialises all writes — under concurrent 
    write load, requests queue behind each other. For a production e-commerce system with simultaneous checkouts, 
    you'd switch to PostgreSQL or MySQL, which support true concurrent writes via row-level locking. 
    The TypeORM DataSource config is the only file that changes — every entity, service, and query written against 
    TypeORM's query builder works identically across all three databases. That portability is a direct benefit of using an 
    ORM abstraction.

"Where is the SQLite database file stored and what are the backup implications?"
    It's a single file at the path specified in DB_PATH. The entire database — schema, data, indexes — lives in that one file.
    Backing it up is as simple as copying the file. However, you must either stop writes or use SQLite's backup API during 
    the copy to avoid copying a file mid-transaction. In contrast, MySQL and PostgreSQL require dedicated backup 
    tools (mysqldump, pg_dump) because data is spread across multiple system files.

"Why does SQLite not need a timezone setting but MySQL does?"
    MySQL is a server process that has its own timezone configuration independent of your application. 
    When TypeORM sends a JavaScript Date to MySQL, the driver must negotiate how to store it relative to the server's 
    timezone — without timezone: 'Z', you get silent offset shifts. SQLite has no server process and no timezone concept 
    of its own. TypeORM stores dates as ISO 8601 strings in SQLite, and reads them back as strings that it parses into 
    JavaScript Date objects — the conversion is handled entirely within the Node.js process, where the timezone is 
    predictable and consistent.

Why bcrypt.hash('Admin@1234', 12)? 
    The second argument is the salt rounds — the cost factor that controls how slow the hash computation is. 
    Each increment doubles the computation time. At 12 rounds, hashing takes ~250ms on modern hardware — fast enough 
    to be imperceptible to a human logging in, but slow enough to make brute-force attacks computationally expensive. 
    Never use fewer than 10 in any real system.

Why is the seed script a separate file rather than running on server startup?
    The Seed Script is like the moving truck. You only need it once to bring in the furniture (data).
    The Server Startup is like opening the door for guests (users).
    Feature                 Seed on Every Startup                   Separate Seed Script (Your Way)
    Speed               Slows down every restart.               Server starts instantly.
    Reliability         A seed error kills the whole app.       App runs even if seeding is skipped.
    Control             Runs automatically (risky).             Runs only when you say so.
    Database Stress     "Constant ""Checks"" on the DB."        One-time setup.

Why bcrypt over SHA-256 or MD5 for password hashing?
    MD5 and SHA-256 are general-purpose cryptographic hash functions designed to be fast — a modern GPU can compute 
    billions of SHA-256 hashes per second, making brute-force and rainbow table attacks trivial. bcrypt is specifically 
    designed to be slow and to scale with hardware improvements via the cost factor. It also automatically generates and 
    embeds a random salt in the output hash, making rainbow table attacks impossible. The output $2b$12$... encodes the 
    algorithm version, cost factor, salt, and hash together — everything needed to verify a password is in that single string.
    Simpler Terms
        Features    MD5 / SHA-256                       Bcrypt
        Speed	🏎️ Instant (Bad for security)	        🐢 Slow (Good for security)
        Cracking	Very Easy	                        Very Hard
        Salt	    You have to add it manually	        Built-in automatically

What is the risk of using synchronize: true when you run the seed script?
    Every time AppDataSource.initialize() is called with synchronize: true, TypeORM compares your entity definitions against 
    the live schema and issues ALTER TABLE statements if they differ. In development this is convenient, 
    but if an entity has a typo or a column type mismatch, TypeORM might try to drop and recreate a 
    column — destroying existing seed data. For this project the risk is low since we control the schema, 
    but it's why production systems use migrations: a migration runs once, is version-controlled, and is 
    never re-run automatically.
    synchronize: true ---> synchronize: 'development'

Why do you return 501 Not Implemented in placeholder controllers instead of just leaving the route undefined?
    501 Not Implemented is the semantically correct HTTP status code for "this endpoint is planned but not yet built." 
    It also means frontend developers can start building against the API surface immediately — they'll get a clear 501 
    instead of a confusing 404, and they know to wait for the implementation rather than questioning whether the route exists.

Why is /api/admin just another route prefix rather than a completely separate Express app?
    The spec requires one Node.js process serving both frontend and API. 
    A separate Express app would require a separate port, which breaks the single-process requirement and 
    introduces CORS complexity between the admin frontend and the admin API. Keeping admin as a prefix under 
    the same app means the same CORS config, the same cookie, and the same error handler apply. The security 
    separation comes from the RBAC middleware applied to the admin router — not from network-level isolation.

What is the difference between app.use() and app.get() / app.post() when registering routes?
    Feature	            app.use()	                            app.get() / app.post()
    HTTP Verb	    Any (GET, POST, etc.)	                Only the one specified.
    Path	        Starts with the path.	                Must match the path exactly.
    Analogy	        The Front Door of the building.	        A Specific Office inside.
    Common Use	    Checking tokens, CORS, JSON parsing.	Registering, Login, Getting Products.

Why deleteAllForUser()? 
    A single user might be logged in on multiple devices simultaneously — their phone, laptop, and work computer. 
    When an admin locks their account, all three sessions must be invalidated immediately. Iterating the Map and 
    deleting every entry matching the userId achieves this in O(n) time where n is the total number of active sessions. 
    For a course project this is perfectly acceptable.

Why optionalAuth? 
    The product detail page must show an "Add to Cart" button to logged-in customers but not to guests — without blocking 
    guests from viewing the page. optionalAuth tries to identify the user but never rejects the request.
    The controller then checks if (req.user) to decide what to include in the response.

Your session store is in memory — what happens when the server restarts?
    All active sessions are lost — every logged-in user gets silently logged out on the next request. 
    For a course project this is acceptable. In production, the session store would be backed by 
    Redis — an in-memory data store that is external to the Node process, survives restarts, and can be shared across 
    multiple server instances in a horizontally scaled deployment. 
    The interface we've built (set, get, delete, deleteAllForUser) (sessionStore) is intentionally simple enough that swapping the Map for a Redis client would only require changing the implementation inside sessionStore.ts — none of the middleware or route code would need to change.

Why do you query the database on every authenticated request to check isLocked? Isn't that expensive?
    It is one extra DB query per protected request. 
    The alternative — trusting only the JWT payload which contains no isLocked field — means a locked user can 
    continue making requests until their token expires. Given the spec explicitly requires immediate lock enforcement, 
    the DB query is mandatory. In a high-traffic production system you'd mitigate the cost with a short-lived cache — store 
    the user object in the session Map entry with a TTL of 30 seconds, and only re-query the DB when the cached entry is stale.
    For this project the direct query is the honest, correct implementation.

Why is requireRole a factory function that returns middleware rather than just a middleware function itself?
    Because different routes require different roles, and we need to express that requirement at route registration time without
    duplicating the role-checking logic. requireRole(UserRole.ADMIN) and requireRole(UserRole.CUSTOMER) are both calls 
    to the same function with different arguments — the factory pattern lets us parameterise the middleware. 
    If requireRole were just a fixed middleware, it could only ever check one hardcoded role. 
    The factory also supports multiple roles — requireRole(UserRole.ADMIN, UserRole.CUSTOMER) would allow either 
    role through, useful if some routes are shared between roles.

Why 409 Conflict and not 400 Bad Request? 
    HTTP status codes carry semantic meaning. 400 means the request itself is malformed. 409 means the 
    request is well-formed but conflicts with existing state — a duplicate email is a conflict, not a malformed request. 
    Using the precise status code makes your API self-documenting and helps the frontend display the right error message 
    without parsing the error string.


Why strip passwordHash before returning? 
    Defence in depth. Even if a future developer accidentally logs the response or sends it somewhere unexpected, 
    the hash is never in the outbound payload. We use destructuring — 
    const { passwordHash: _, ...safeUser } = saved — to create a new object without the field rather than deleting it from 
    the entity instance.

A user registers with 'USER@EMAIL.COM' and later tries to register with 'user@email.com' — what happens?
    We normalise the email to lowercase with .toLowerCase().trim() before both the uniqueness check and the save() call. 
    So both inputs resolve to user@email.com — the second registration hits the duplicate check and returns a 409. 
    We also use express-validator's normalizeEmail() in the validation middleware, which handles edge cases like 
    Gmail's dot-insensitivity. Storing emails in a canonical form prevents ghost duplicate accounts that cause login failures.
    Input                     Normalization Step         Final Result       Result in DB
    USER@Email.com           .trim().toLowerCase()       user@email.com     Success (Saved)
    user@email.com           .trim().toLowerCase()       user@email.com     409 Conflict (Already exists)
    u.s.e.r@gmail.com        normalizeEmail()            user@gmail.com     409 Conflict (Smart match)

Why do you call next(err) in the catch block instead of res.status(500).json(...)?
    Calling res.json() directly in the catch block would bypass the global error handler entirely. 
    The global error handler in app.ts has the important job of sanitising error messages before they reach 
    the client — in production it returns a generic message instead of exposing stack traces or database errors. 
    By calling next(err), we let that centralised logic run. It also means the error is logged in one consistent place. 
    The service layer throws errors with a .status property set (like 409 for duplicates) — 
    the global error handler reads err.status to set the correct HTTP status code.

What does express-validator actually do that manual if (!req.body.email) checks don't?
    express-validator provides a declarative, chainable validation API that handles sanitisation, type coercion, 
    and error collection in one pass. Manual checks would require nested if-statements, manual error array building, 
    and separate sanitisation calls. More importantly, express-validator runs as middleware — the validation rules 
    execute before the controller, and the controller calls validationResult(req) to collect all failures at once. 
    This means a user submitting a form with five invalid fields gets all five error messages in one response, 
    not just the first one encountered. Manual checks typically fail-fast on the first error, 
    leading to a frustrating "whack-a-mole" UX for users.

Why run bcrypt.compare even when the user isn't found? 
    If you return immediately when the user doesn't exist, the endpoint responds in ~1ms. 
    When the user exists but the password is wrong, bcrypt.compare takes ~250ms. An attacker can measure response times 
    to determine whether an email address is registered — a timing attack. Running bcrypt on a dummy hash regardless 
    ensures the endpoint always takes ~250ms, making timing attacks infeasible.

Why do you return the same error message for both 'user not found' and 'wrong password' instead of being specific?
    Returning "Email not found" vs "Wrong password" is called user enumeration — it tells an attacker which 
    email addresses are registered in your system. With that information they can target specific accounts for 
    phishing or credential stuffing. The generic message "Invalid email or password" gives the attacker no information 
    about which part failed. Combined with our timing attack mitigation — always running bcrypt regardless — 
    the login endpoint reveals nothing about internal state.

What is sameSite: 'lax' protecting against and why not 'strict'?
    sameSite controls when the browser sends the cookie on cross-origin requests. 
    'strict' never sends the cookie when navigating from an external site — so if a user clicks a link to your 
    site from Google, their cookie isn't sent and they appear logged out. 'lax' sends the cookie on top-level 
    navigations (clicking a link) but not on sub-resource requests (images, iframes, AJAX) from third-party sites. 
    This blocks CSRF attacks — a malicious site cannot make authenticated AJAX calls to your API — while preserving normal 
    navigation behaviour. 'strict' would break the "share a product URL" feature since clicking a shared link from another 
    site would not recognise the user as logged in.

After a password reset, why do you invalidate all active sessions?
    If someone's account was compromised and an attacker changed the password, we want to immediately log out the 
    attacker's session. But we also want to log out any other sessions the legitimate user had — they should re-authenticate 
    with the new password to confirm they have control of the account. SessionStore.deleteAllForUser() ensures every device is
    logged out simultaneously. Without this step, an attacker who changed the password via a stolen reset code could 
    remain logged in on their device even after the legitimate user resets it again.

why not passport ?
    "I chose not to use Passport.js because it abstracts away the exact security mechanisms the project is being evaluated 
    on — password hashing, session management, token issuance, and role enforcement. 
    Using Passport would mean I'm configuring 
    a library rather than implementing and understanding the security layer. 
    Our custom authenticate middleware and 
    SessionStore achieve the same result with full transparency — I can explain every line of both files, which I cannot do 
    if Passport is doing the work internally."

Why andWhere() instead of where()? 
    Each call to .where() overwrites any previous condition. 
    .andWhere() appends with AND — so all active filters combine correctly. 
    This is the most common TypeORM query builder mistake.
    Ex.
        .where
        qb.where('product.categoryId = :catId', { catId: 5 });
        // This line DELETES the category filter and replaces it!
        qb.where('product.inStock = :stock', { stock: true }); 
        // Resulting SQL: SELECT * FROM product WHERE inStock = true;
        // (You lost the Electronics filter!)

        .andWhere
        qb.where('product.categoryId = :catId', { catId: 5 });
        // This line KEEPS the category and adds a new condition
        qb.andWhere('product.inStock = :stock', { stock: true });
        // Resulting SQL: SELECT * FROM product WHERE categoryId = 5 AND inStock = true;

Why LOWER() on both sides of the LIKE? 
    SQLite's LIKE is case-insensitive for ASCII by default, but wrapping both sides in LOWER() makes the intent explicit and
    ensures correctness on any database engine you might migrate to.
    Ex.                LIKE                     LOWER(name) LIKE LOWER(:search)
        "iPhOnE"	❌ No Match (PostgreSQL)	✅ Match ("iphone" = "iphone")

Why does the taxonomy filter hierarchy matter — why not just accept all three IDs simultaneously?
    If a user selects a typeId of Electronics and a subCategoryId of Keyboards, the subCategoryId filter already implicitly
    scopes to Electronics — applying both would be redundant at best and contradictory at worst if they belong to different 
    branches. We apply the most specific filter provided — SubCategory takes precedence over Category which takes precedence 
    over Type. This matches how real browsing works: a user drilling into a subcategory wants only that subcategory's products,
    not the entire type.
    Ex. Think of it like a GPS Navigation system. If you tell the GPS you are in London, but also in California, the system
     crashes because those two things can't happen at the same time.
        Filter 1 (Type): Show me all Electronics.
        Filter 2 (Category): Now, show me only Computers within Electronics.
        Filter 3 (Subcategory): Finally, show me only Laptops within those Computers.
    hierarchy (Type → Category → Subcategory) prevents "impossible" or "dirty" data from breaking your store's logic.

Why cap limit at 50 server-side rather than trusting the client's value?
    A client could send ?limit=100000, causing the server to load every product into memory in one query — a denial-of-service
    vulnerability requiring no authentication. Server-side capping with Math.min(limit, 50) ensures the server never materialises 
    more than 50 rows regardless of what the client requests. The frontend can request any page size up to 50 — the cap is 
    invisible to legitimate users but blocks abuse.

Why generate a unique filename instead of using the original? (multer.ts)
    Two reasons. First, collisions — two products both uploading photo.jpg would overwrite each other. 
    Second, security — a user could upload a file named ../../../index.js and with naive filename handling, 
    overwrite your server files. Sanitising the name and prepending a timestamp eliminates both risks.

Why check MIME type in fileFilter? 
    File extensions are trivially spoofable — a user can rename malware.exe to product.jpg. 
    Checking file.mimetype verifies what the HTTP client claims the file type is. For a 
    production system you'd also verify the file's magic bytes (the first few bytes of the 
    actual file content) using a library like file-type. For this project, MIME type checking is sufficient.

Why store only the filename in the database rather than the full URL like 
http://localhost:3000/images/keyboard.jpg ?
    Storing the full URL couples your database to your deployment environment. 
    If the domain changes from localhost:3000 to shop.example.com, or from HTTP to HTTPS,
    every image URL in the database is wrong. 
    Storing only the filename — keyboard.jpg — means the URL is constructed at query 
    time by the application layer, which knows the current base URL 
    from environment variables. One environment variable change updates every image 
    URL instantly with no database migration needed.

What happens to the image file on disk when a product is deleted?
    We call fs.unlinkSync() to delete the file from ProductImages/ before removing 
    the database row. Without this, deleted products leave orphaned files accumulating 
    on disk indefinitely — a storage leak. 
    The delete is synchronous (unlinkSync) rather than async because we want the file deletion to complete before the database row is removed. 
    If they were async and the process crashed between the two operations, 
    we'd have a deleted DB row but an orphaned file — or worse, a deleted file but an intact DB row pointing to a missing image.

How does upload.single('image') know where to save the file and what to name it?
    upload is the multer instance configured with our diskStorage engine. 
    The diskStorage engine has two functions — destination (which directory to write to)
    and filename (what to name the file). Both are defined in multer.config.ts. 
    When the request arrives, multer reads the image field from the multipart/form-data 
    body, runs the file through fileFilter to validate the MIME type, then calls 
    destination and filename to determine where to write it. After writing, multer 
    populates req.file with metadata including filename — which our controller reads to
    store in the database.

What happens if two users add the last unit of a product to their carts simultaneously?
    Solution: For this project the soft reservation approach is acceptable — the checkout service 
        validates stock again before confirming the order, which is where we'll handle the final guard.
    Key Talks: 
        The Problem: Race Condition (two users passing the check at the same millisecond).
        The Strategy: Soft Reservation (checking at add-to-cart, but validating at checkout).
        The Solution: Database Transactions and Row Locking.
    For a high-scale production app, I would upgrade this to Pessimistic Locking using SELECT FOR UPDATE to lock the
    database row during the transaction.

Why does updateCartItem with quantity 0 remove the item rather than returning an error?
    It's a UX design decision. The frontend's quantity input will have a minus button — when the user decrements 
    from 1 to 0, it's semantically equivalent to removing the item. Treating 0 as a remove-intent rather than 
    an error means the frontend can use a single PATCH /cart/update endpoint for both "change quantity" and 
    "remove item" without needing special-case logic. The user's mental model is "I want zero of this" which means 
    "remove it". Requiring a separate DELETE call for that specific case adds unnecessary complexity on the client side.
    Key Talking Points for the Interview:
        User Mental Model: "Zero" naturally means "remove."
        API Simplicity: One endpoint (PATCH) handles two actions (Update & Delete).
        Frontend Efficiency: No extra conditional logic needed on the client side to switch between different API methods.

How does the cart persist across server restarts while the session store does not?
    The cart is stored in the SQLite database — a file on disk. It persists across any 
    process lifecycle event including crashes and restarts because SQLite writes to disk
    synchronously. 
    The session store is a JavaScript Map object in the Node.js process 
    heap — it is allocated in RAM and lost the moment the process exits. 
    These are two fundamentally different storage mechanisms with different persistence
    guarantees. The session store is intentionally ephemeral — losing sessions on restart
    is acceptable because users simply log in again, and their cart is still waiting 
    for them in the database.
Feature             Cart (Database)                     Session (Memory)
Storage Location    Disk (Hard Drive)                   RAM (Memory)
Survivor Status     Restarts don't matter               Wiped on restart
Speed               Fast                                Extremely Fast
Analogy             A Notebook (Written in ink)         A Whiteboard (Erased at night)



